---
title: 'React App'
date: '2019-03-06'
description: 'We ran into some problems with accessing data from our yelp api. React was introduced yesterday and it is a whole new world (but still close to what we have been doing). ❤️'
thumbnail: 'https://blog.teamtreehouse.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/react-logo.png'
---

## Talent Path

Sorry, but I will keep this short. We are doing a lot of project work this week and I want to make sure I am available for my team.

We are in the middle of sprint 2 and are applying the changes from our previous code review to make sure we have a working application to show off to potential clients if they are interested in a working version of our app.

Aura is going well, but we might have to model our database differently because we cannot get the **ambience** attribute from the yelp api (the selling point of our application). Some possible suggestions are to:

- Store yelp's business ID in our database and append our aura data to the information that our 3rd party api provides.
- Users can tag locations and we can use the tags to create **aura** data. (For future scope)

The scope has been paired down to work in LA and might be futher paired down to coffee shops in LA.

## Technology

Article: [Surge VS GitHub Pages: How to deploy a create-react-app project](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/surge-vs-github-pages-deploying-a-create-react-app-project-c0ecbf317089)

Our project that we are working with is currently deployed with GitHub Pages, a wonderful web hosting service that takes your repositories on GitHub and hosts a webpage per repository.

Right now, we don't have a framework attatched to our project, but we will use React, so I want to integrate our current working directory with React and still use GitHub pages. Luckily this article discusses and plugin called [gh-pages](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages).

To use a react app, install "gh-pages" from npm and add these two scripts to your package.json

```json
"scripts" : {
  "predeploy": "npm run build",
  "deploy": "gh-pages -d build",
}
```

And then run

```bash
npm run deploy
```

to build and create the "gh-pages" branch in your remote repository.

After you configure your repository to target the "gh-pages" branch, then you are good to go!! 🎉

Thank you for reading.
